As she launches data science initiatives in her organization,
a wise leader will involve stakeholders throughout the organization.
Being able to discuss aspects of the project
that are relevant to various people throughout the business
is one way to build credibility for
both the business leader and the data science initiative overall.
Stakeholders tend to be people with contextual knowledge of
the business who are closest to the operational goals of a data science project.
In general, these break down into five separate categories.
Perhaps the most important stakeholders are executives,
that is, the business leaders at the very top of the organization.
This includes members of the C-suite,
the CEO, the chief information officer,
the chief marketing officer,
chief technology officer and so forth,
business unit leaders, and even possibly board members.
Executive stakeholders should be included in every data science initiative.
If you fail to establish a regular cadence
of updates with senior leaders such as the CEO,
you may encounter unfortunate circumstances.
In particular, the executive may forget about your project leading to
disaster if you need more funding or resources or if your project runs into problems.
On the other hand, the CEO may begin to pester you and your team for status updates.
In the worst instances,
you'll find the CEO bypassing you altogether to talk to your team directly,
which can create problems with your supervision and management.
Second, everybody involved in the day-to-day work to support
and execute data science initiatives includes data scientists,
data analysts, data engineers,
analytics managers and directors, and so forth.
Third are business stakeholders beyond the executive suite.
These include functional area heads,
functional subject matter experts,
and individuals charged with customer service.
Fourth are members of technological areas of the business.
These include IT, architects,
programmers, or database administrators.
Finally, many projects have external stakeholders.
Customers or representatives of customers are members of client project teams.
By involving stakeholders early and often,
a leader can generate enthusiasm and support for
the data science initiative and will be more likely to develop
data science projects that honor and reflect
the technical challenges specific to different areas of the business.
Working with stakeholders can be challenging as people tend to be
motivated by different, sometimes conflicting objectives.
The additional research section of this lesson includes an article I
like about working with stakeholders as a data scientist.